## [SDF10] API Learning Reflection 🧠

Welcome to the [SDF10] API Learning Reflection! Through this exercise, you will reflect on key concepts, practical experiences, and the tools you've encountered or used in API interactions.

1. **Understanding and Application**: Reflecting on the key concepts, can you explain in your own words what an API is and its significance in software development? Provide an example of how you have used or encountered an API in a project or a practical scenario.

[An API is an Aplication Programming Interface. An api allows different aplications, whether software or hardware related to communicate with one another. An API is the essential middle man handeling client requests and returning server responses. I use Spotify daily, and it makes use of a Repote API to fetch data whether it is artist information or playing back music. Furthermore, it allows me as the user to set up playlists in the client, and the server remembers all the data I input and keeps it for future use.]

2. **Conceptual Distinctions**: How would you differentiate between an interface and an API? 

[In the case of web development, an interface is the point at which 2 things interact, be it a user scrolling through and interacting with an app or webpage. An API uses this interface and adds to it. The added functionalities is the communication gap bewteen an interface and the backend of a webapp. The API can send data to a database/sertver, and allows the server to send data back to the client which is then presented to the client via an "interface".]

3. **Components and Types of APIs**: Can you identify the main components of an API and describe their roles? Reflect on the different types of APIs mentioned (e.g., Web APIs, RESTful APIs) and discuss which type you find most intriguing or useful, and why.

[The 3 main components of an API includes the enpoints, methods, and the data formats. The role of an endpoint is to signify where data is being interacted with (whether it is requested, sent, altered, deleted, etc.), and in web APIs this is defined in the URL path. The method is telling the API how this data needs to be handled from the endpoints. Here the API needs to be informed whether to "get, post, put, or delete" the data. Lastly, data formats are important to include as this enables the API to read data sent effectively, and to return data in a meaningful format for a user/client to understand; The most common data type is JSON, and in the past XML was used more frequenmtly.

APIs can be internal in the form of Database APIs, these allow interconnected areas of companies to communicate with one another. APIs can also accelerate development processes via the use of Library and Framework APIs, Some of the most used APIs are Web APIs allowing devices and services in a more public domain to connect with one another. Harware APIs is another form of API allowing hardware componments to communicate via software with one another or with internal software facets. Lastly, an operating system has various IOS APIs which allows the different softwares to communicate with one another. One of the most commonly used APIs today is called a RESTful API (Representational State Transfer"), and these APIs follow specific rules for transferring data, they make it easier for developers to specify what data and how data should be used. The aspect that sets a RESTful API apart is that it is stateless, meaning every request a client makes contains all of the information that a server needs to fulful a request, this means that there is no data stored on a server between requests allowing for more scalability, simplicity, and flexibility.]

4. **Practical Application and Tools**: Reflect on your experience with API exploration and implementation. Have you used any specific tools (such as Curl or API exploration tools) or libraries to interact with APIs? 

[Understanding the basic theory was not difficult, but feeling overwhelmed with all the available options of APIs and how each has their own dialect and ways of doing things can be intense. At least the basis for how RESTful works remains the same. It will take some time and practice to know what APIs to use for what purposes.]

5. **Learning and Improvement**: Considering the key concepts and your practical experiences, identify one area related to APIs where you feel confident and one area where you see a need for improvement. What steps will you take to enhance your understanding and skills in the area you wish to improve?

[I feel confident in the theory on what APIs are and What they can achieve. Im still uncertain about implementation etc, as there are so many ways to implement/maintain APIs. For now I will continue with added videos and reading just to grasp the implementation of these APIs better, as most API follow along and tutorials assume you know to a degree some pivotal skills in JS etc, which I feel I have very limited knowledge on at this moment.]